[develop2] conanfile_txt (#2869)
conan-io/docs: reference/conanfile_txt.rst

.. _conanfile_txt_reference:

conanfile.txt
=============

> The ``conanfile.txt`` is a simplified version of ``conanfile.py``, aimed at simple consumption of dependencies, but it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``conanfile.txt`` file is a simplified version of ``conanfile.py``, aimed at simple consumption of dependencies, but it
```

cannot be used to create a package. Also, it is not necessary to have a ``conanfile.txt`` for consuming dependencies, 

> a ``conanfile.py`` can be perfectly use for simple consumption of dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a ``conanfile.py`` is perfectly suited for simple consumption of dependencies.
```

It also provides a simplified functionality, for example it is not possible to express conditional requirements in
``conanfile.txt``, and it will be necessary to use a ``conanfile.py`` for that. Read :ref:`consuming_packages_flexibility_of_conanfile_py`
for more information about this.

[requires]
----------

> List of requirements, specifying the full reference. Equivalent to ``self.requires(<ref>)`` in the ``conanfile.py``. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
List of requirements, specifying the full reference. Equivalent to ``self.requires(<ref>)`` in ``conanfile.py``. 
```

.. code-block:: text

    [requires]
    poco/1.9.4
    zlib/1.2.11

This section supports references with version-ranges too:

.. code-block:: text

    [requires]
    poco/[>1.0,<1.9]
    zlib/1.2.11

And specific recipe revisions can be pinned too:

.. code-block:: text

    [requires]
    zlib/1.2.13#revision1
    boost/1.70.0#revision2

[tool_requires]
---------------

List of tool requirements (executable tools) specifying the full reference.
Equivalent to ``self.tool_requires()`` in ``conanfile.py``.

.. code-block:: text

    [tool_requires]
    7zip/16.00
    cmake/3.23.0

This section also supports version ranges and pinned recipe revisions, as above.

In practice the ``[tool_requires]`` will be always installed (same as ``[requires]``) as installing from a *conanfile.txt* means that
something is going to be built, so the tool requirements are indeed needed.
Note however, that by default ``tool_requires`` live in the "build" context, they cannot be libraries to built with, just executable
tools, and for example, using the ``CMakeDeps`` generator, they will not create CMake config files for them (an exception is possible,

> but it requires using a ``conanfile.py``, read the ``CMakeDeps`` reference for more information).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but it requires using a ``conanfile.py``, read the :ref:`CMakeDeps reference<CMakeDeps>` for more information).
```

[test_requires]
---------------

List of test requirements specifying the full reference.
Equivalent to ``self.test_requires()`` in ``conanfile.py``.

.. code-block:: text

    [tool_requires]
    gtest/1.12.1

This section also supports version ranges and pinned recipe revisions, as above.
The behavior of ``test_requires`` is totally equivalent to the ``[requires]`` section above, as the only difference is that
``test_requires`` are not propagated to consumers, but as a ``conanfile.txt`` is never creating a package that can be consumed, it is
irrelevant. It is provided to maintain the equivalence with ``conanfile.py``

[generators]
------------

> List of built-in generators to be used, equivalent to ``conanfile.py`` ``generators = "CMakeDeps", ...`` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
List of built-in generators to be used, equivalent to the ``conanfile.py`` ``generators = "CMakeDeps", ...`` attribute.
```
